Small node build

The initial enclosure I was using was the small black with front 4 screw cover but I opted for the swing door on this build for easier node maintenance. 

All items linked below. 

Some things you that will make life easier:

A drill index

A unibit kit aka step bit


Machine screws - 6/32 x 3/4 inch long are in the photo below, but I think 1/2 inch long would work best. Along with the 6/32 nuts. In this build we need 7 of each. 


The small black enclosure linked below comes with water tight connectors and breath hole in image below


Mark the front of the enclosure for mounting the solar panel with sharpie or with the larger panel there is this sticker. 


Mark the bottom of the enclosure for a breather hole and connector for solar wire entry. Center of the box height and space the holes equally. These are not critical dimensions. 

Mark the top for antenna connection. Center / center for a clean look. 

The connector i like to use has a flange that i believe make a more secure build and a better water protection. The marks need to be precise. Use step bit to make the hole. Check the connector will sit flush but still be snug. 


Drill 4 holes with a small drill bit; a 7/64 inch bit is just enough for the screw. Add a nut to the bottom.


Drill 3 holes for the solar panel mount or they amount you need for your panel and secure them with the same screws and nuts 



Drill bottom 2 holes in the enclosure with step bit. Make sure you have the locknut clearance if using different enclosures. 


I use this Dual Lock Velcro to the back of the battery and the node as well. Helps keep everything from moving around during transport and during the build. 



Insert the panel wire through the waterproof connector underneath 

Plug in the antenna connection and the solar/battery connectors. Keep all wires isolated. I like the clip splices. There is a Wago 2-port connector that works well. A blue splice is an alternative.





Before you make your splices, double check polarity. These plugs I ordered are reversed and a little delicate to swap pin. I confirmed panel polarity and battery polarity with tester. Check the Rak WisBlock Power instructions that indicate both positives are interior on the board. 

Wire management is at your discretion, I like to keep it loose because im in build mode. If you want to change anything, the more zipties you have the harder it is to change things. 



Screw in the antenna to the faceplate and adjust. Sun hours in the winter are lower. Try to have panel facing south with a flatter angle to account for low-lying sun. 



